## A distributed key-value store system
This is an implementation of a distributed key value store system. 
When a `put` request is generated by the `client`, `server` will generate a 
randomised algorithm to decide which node to store the data in, the idea is 
that due to randomization, the load of local storage should be distributed 
evenly accross all available nodes. 

After the target `node` is decided, `server` will send both `key` and `value` 
to the `node` and expect to get a `successful` response. 
The `get` request works in a similar way. The algorithm implementation ensures 
that for each unique `key`, the target `node` remains the same.

A `pthread_mutex_lock` was employed in the `put` section to protect the hash 
table when contention happens

## Implementation decisions

### Consistent hashing

#### Add a node
When a client request to `add` a node, it sends the `node_info` to server, which
will decide where in the `ring` would the new incoming node go. Once the node is
added to the `ring`, the `next` node in the ring will send all of its key-value
pairs to the server to ask for a `re-distribution` of the keys, thus make sure 
the consistent view of the system.

#### Drop a node

When a client request to `drop` a node, it sends the `node_info` to server, which
will signify the node to be removed to `send` all of its key-value stores to the
server to `re-distribute` them, thus make sure the consistent view of the system.

## Set up server, node, and client

0. `$ make`
1. First bring the `node` online since it's where all the data is supposed to 
be by `$ ./node {port} localhost:3344`, eg. `$ ./node 3345 localhost:3344`, 
`$ ./node 3346 localhost:3344`, `$ ./node 3347 localhost:3344`
2. Then bring `server` online by putting how many nodes are available and 
their ip addressed, for example `$ ./server 3 localhost:3345 
localhost:3346 localhost:3347`
3. Then the `client` could test using `$ ./client localhost:3344 {method} key value`, 
note that the `localhost:3344` is the IP address of server
4. Available methods: `put` `add` `get` `drop`, note that node address should be 
provided instead of key-value pair in the case of `add` and `drop`.

## helpful resources that made this happen
1. [Bryant & O'HALLARON]: Computer Systems: a programmer's perspective
2. Beej's guide for network programming
3. Operating systems: three easy pieces
4. cs.yale.edu for the handy hashing method

## to do
Enhance data stability/security
